## A Bayesian Functional Concurrent Zero-Inflated Dirichlet-Multinomial Regression Model with Application to Infant Microbiome

The infant microbiome undergoes rapid changes in composition over time and is associated with long-term risks of conditions such as immune strength, allergy, asthma, and other health outcomes. Modeling the associations between exposures or treatments and microbial composition over time is essential for understanding the factors that drive these changes. Estimating these temporal dynamics has several challenges including: repeated measures, overdispersion, compositionality, high-dimensional parameter spaces, and zero-inflation. Many longitudinal regression models used in human microbiome research assume constant effects over time that cannot capture time-varying or functional effects of exposures, ignore the compositional structure of the data by modeling each taxon separately, and are not equipped to handle potential zero-inflation. Dirichlet-multinomial (DM) regression models inherently accommodate overdispersion and the compositional structure of the data and have been extended to account for excess zeros. However, existing DM-based regression models are unable to additionally handle repeated measures designs. To fill this gap, we propose a functional concurrent zero-inflated Dirichlet-multinomial (FunC-ZIDM) regression model which is designed to model time-varying relations between observed covariates and microbial taxa while accounting for zero-inflation, compositionality, and repeated measures. Through simulation, we demonstrate that the model can accurately estimate the underlying functional relations and scale to large compositional spaces. We apply our model to investigate time-varying associations between infant microbiome composition and observed covariates during the 11-week postnatal period. We found that $\alpha$-diversity (i.e., the diversity of the microbiome within an individual) is positively associated with a higher gestational age and percentage of breast milk in the diet. We provide an accompanying `R` package and `shiny` app to implement the method and generate plots.

## Assessing Uncertainty and Methods of Evaluation in Deep Learning Classification Models

I worked on this project while interning at [KLA](https://www.kla.com/) during the Summer of 2024. I researched and modified state of the art uncertainty quantification and evaluation metrics for deep learning classification techniques for KLA data. The methods were utilized to assess the performance of models on new data. The method was implemented into the codebase.

## Deep Learning Classification with Noisy Labels

I worked on this project while interning at [KLA](https://www.kla.com/) during the Summer of 2023. I researched and modified state of the art noisy-label deep learning classification techniques for KLA data. The methods utilized semi- and self-supervised learning, alongside advance CNNs. Achieved accuracies nearing those of a clean dataset (within 3-5\%) in datasets with up to 20\% noise.

## Nielsen Consumer Research

Under [Dr. Robert Manduca](https://robertmanduca.com/), I analyzed the [nielsen consumer panel](https://www.chicagobooth.edu/research/kilts/datasets/nielsenIQ-nielsen) 
data. I did data cleaning, simply analysis, cload computing, dimension reduction, and clustering. With my finding, Dr. Manduca plans to write a (or some) papers.
